# Market Sector Price Movement

## Description  
The Market Sector Price Movement (MSPM) is a project designed to automate the daily tracking of multiple key market metrics for a professional day trader. This tool consolidates data from various Excel sheets, processes it to extract relevant market sector information, and exports it to be served as input for a Tableau dashboard. The end result is a streamlined process that replaces an hour of manual setup with an automated workflow that can be completed in seconds.

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Har-Var/Market-Sector-Price-Movement.git
   cd Market-Sector-Price-Movement
   ```
2. Ensure you have Python 3.x installed.
3. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Set the paths in `src/config/config.py` as per your local directory structure for Input Files, Tableau Data, and Report Output.
5. Ensure the Input Files for the process are in the Input Folder specified in `src/config/config.py`. The files should follow the following template:-
   * Files should follow the naming convention - `Price_filter_<DD_MM_YYYY>.xlsx`. For Example - `Price_filter_01_01_2023.xlsx`
   * Each xlsx should containa worksheet named `SubSector Analysis` containing data for all subsectors.
   * Refer to one sample Input file (at `data/input/`) for reference. 
   

## Usage
To execute the ETL pipeline and generate files for the dashboard:
```bash
python src/etl_runner.py
```

## Features
- Automates the daily process of gathering and processing data from multiple Excel files.
- Outputs a Tableau-compatible CSV file and an Excel report for further analysis.
- Streamlines the workflow, allowing the user to focus on market trends rather than data preparation.

## Project Structure
The project is organized into the following structure:

* `src`: Contains the source code for the project.
  - `etl`: Holds core ETL functions organized by task.
    - `extract.py`: Functions to read and extract data from input files.
    - `transform.py`: Functions for merging and splitting data into Market Sectors
    - `load.py`: Functions to output data for Tableau Workbooks and an Excel Report split Sectorwise.
  - `etl_runner.py`: Main script to execute the ETL process.
* `config`: Contains configuration files for file paths.
  - `config.py`: Paths for input data, report output, and Tableau export.
* `requirements.txt`: Lists project dependencies.
* `data`: Contains data files generated by the ETL process.
  - `input`: Folder for storing input Excel files for the ETL process.
  - `reports`: Folder for the Excel report.
  - `tableau`: Folder for the Tableau CSV output.


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions or improvements, please open a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Authors
- [Har-Var](https://github.com/Har-Var)

## Acknowledgments
Special thanks to the trader who provided valuable insights into this process.





